docs/tables/googlesheets_cell.md, before:

# Table: googlesheets_cell

Retrieves information of a non-empty cell in a given sheet.

## Examples

### List all cells within a specific range

```sql
select
  sheet_name,
  cell,
  value
from
  googlesheets_cell
where
  range = 'Students!B1:C2';
```

### List all cells in a column

```sql
select
  sheet_name,
  cell,
  value
from
  googlesheets_cell
where
  range = 'Students!A:A';
```

### List all cells in a row

```sql
select
  sheet_name,
  cell,
  value
from
  googlesheets_cell
where
  range = 'Students!1:1';
```

### Get a specific cell

```sql
select
  sheet_name,
  cell,
  value
from
  googlesheets_cell
where
  range = 'Students!A2';
```

### List all cells with hyperlink information

```sql
select
  sheet_name,
  cell,
  value,
  hyperlink
from
  googlesheets_cell
where
  sheet_name = 'Students'
  and hyperlink is not null;
```

### List all cells with formula

```sql
select
  sheet_name,
  cell,
  value,
  formula
from
  googlesheets_cell
where
  sheet_name = 'Students'
  and formula is not null;
```

### List cells with formula parse error

```sql
select
  sheet_name,
  cell,
  value,
  formula
from
  googlesheets_cell
where
  sheet_name = 'Employee'
  and formula is not null
  and value in ('#N/A', '#DIV/0!', '#VALUE!', '#REF!', '#NAME?', '#NUM!', '#ERROR!', '#NULL!');
```

Commit message:

Update filter logic in googlesheets_cell table

docs/tables/googlesheets_cell.md, after:

# Table: googlesheets_cell

Retrieves information of a non-empty cell in a given sheet.

## Examples

### List all cells within a specific range

```sql
select
  sheet_name,
  cell,
  value
from
  googlesheets_cell
where
  range = 'Students!B1:C2';
```

### List all cells in a column

```sql
select
  sheet_name,
  cell,
  value
from
  googlesheets_cell
where
  range = 'Students!A:A';
```

### List all cells in a row

```sql
select
  sheet_name,
  cell,
  value
from
  googlesheets_cell
where
  range = 'Students!1:1';
```

### Get a specific cell

```sql
select
  sheet_name,
  cell,
  value
from
  googlesheets_cell
where
  range = 'Students!A2';
```

### Get a specific cell using `row` and `col`

```sql
select
  sheet_name,
  cell,
  value
from
  googlesheets_cell
where
  sheet_name = 'Students'
  and row = 2
  and col = 'A';
```

### List all cells with hyperlink information

```sql
select
  sheet_name,
  cell,
  value,
  hyperlink
from
  googlesheets_cell
where
  sheet_name = 'Students'
  and hyperlink is not null;
```

### List all cells with formula

```sql
select
  sheet_name,
  cell,
  value,
  formula
from
  googlesheets_cell
where
  sheet_name = 'Students'
  and formula is not null;
```

### List cells with formula parse error

```sql
select
  sheet_name,
  cell,
  value,
  formula
from
  googlesheets_cell
where
  sheet_name = 'Employee'
  and formula is not null
  and value in ('#N/A', '#DIV/0!', '#VALUE!', '#REF!', '#NAME?', '#NUM!', '#ERROR!', '#NULL!');
```
